CASMTRIAGE-7106 adding procedure for building NCN images in CSM 1.5.2 patch (#5190)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: upgrade/1.5.2/Upgrade_NCN_images.md

        ```bash
        /usr/share/doc/csm/upgrade/scripts/upgrade/ncn-upgrade-worker-storage-nodes.sh ${CANARY_NODE} --upgrade
        ```

    1. After successfully upgrading the `CANARY_NODE`, continue upgrading the remaining storage nodes.

        1. Get a comma sperated list of storage nodes to be upgraded.

            ```bash
            STORAGE_NODES="$(ceph orch host ls | awk '/^ncn\-s/{if ($1 != "'"$CANARY_NODE"'") print $1}')"
            STORAGE_NODES="${STORAGE_NODES//$'\n'/,}"
            echo "$STORAGE_NODES"
            ```

        1. Upgrade remaining storage nodes.

            ```bash
            /usr/share/doc/csm/upgrade/scripts/upgrade/ncn-upgrade-worker-storage-nodes.sh "${STORAGE_NODES}" --upgrade
            ```

    For troubleshooting the storage node upgrades, see the notes in the [CSM storage node upgrade procedure](../Stage_2.md#storage-node-image-upgrade-and-ceph-upgrade).

1. (`ncn-m001#`) Export `CSM_ARTI_DIR` environment variable. (`CSM_RELEASE_VERSION` and `CSM_DISTDIR` is expected to already be set).

    ```bash
    CSM_REL_NAME="csm-${CSM_RELEASE_VERSION}"
    export CSM_ARTI_DIR="${CSM_DISTDIR}"
    echo "${CSM_ARTI_DIR}"
    ```

> 1. Upgrade master nodes and worker nodes using the steps below, these will walk through the [CSM Stage 3 Upgrade Kubernetes documentation](../Stage_3.md) steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Upgrade master nodes and worker nodes using the following steps, these will walk through the [CSM Stage 3 Upgrade Kubernetes documentation](../Stage_3.md) steps.
```

step of the patch procedure. The node upgrades will not change the state of the node.

It is important to do this step so that nodes
are using the correct images. If NCNs are not upgraded into these images, then `cloudinit` will fail on the nodes the next
time the nodes are rebuilt. These images were set in BSS during [Update NCN images](../1.5.2/README.md#update-ncn-images)
and if the NCN nodes are not upgraded, then on any node reboot will cause the node to be booted into this new image which is not following the proper
upgrade procedure which could cause problems.

## Steps

1. (`ncn-m001#`) Upgrade storage nodes.

    1. Pick one storage node to test the first storage node upgrade on. This will be referred to as the `CANARY_NODE`.

        ```bash
        CANARY_NODE="ncn-s001"
        ```

    1. Perform the storage node upgrade on the `CANARY_NODE`.

        ```bash
        /usr/share/doc/csm/upgrade/scripts/upgrade/ncn-upgrade-worker-storage-nodes.sh ${CANARY_NODE} --upgrade
        ```

    1. After successfully upgrading the `CANARY_NODE`, continue upgrading the remaining storage nodes.

>         1. Get a comma sperated list of storage nodes to be upgraded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        1. Get a comma seperated list of storage nodes to be upgraded.
```

# Upgrade NCNs during CSM `1.5.2` Patch

This page provides guidance for systems that are performing an upgrade from a CSM `v1.5.X` release to the CSM `v1.5.2` release.

The [`v1.5.2` upgrade page](../1.5.2/README.md) will refer to this page
during [NCN Upgrade](../1.5.2/README.md#ncn-upgrade).

## Overview

> This steps upgrade NCNs into the node images created during the [Update NCN images](../1.5.2/README.md#update-ncn-images)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following steps upgrade NCNs into the node images created during the [Update NCN images](../1.5.2/README.md#update-ncn-images)
```

step of the patch procedure. The node upgrades will not change the state of the node.

It is important to do this step so that nodes

> are using the correct images. If NCN are not upgraded into these images, then `cloudinit` would fail on the nodes the next

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are using the correct images. If NCNs are not upgraded into these images, then `cloudinit` will fail on the nodes the next
```

and if the NCN nodes are not upgraded, then on any node reboot will cause the node to be booted into this new image which is not following the proper
upgrade procedure which could cause problems.

## Steps

1. (`ncn-m001#`) Upgrade storage nodes.

    1. Pick one storage node to test the first storage node upgrade on. This will be referred to as the `CANARY_NODE`.

        ```bash
        CANARY_NODE="ncn-s001"
        ```

    1. Perform the storage node upgrade on the `CANARY_NODE`.

        ```bash
        /usr/share/doc/csm/upgrade/scripts/upgrade/ncn-upgrade-worker-storage-nodes.sh ${CANARY_NODE} --upgrade
        ```

    1. If the `CANARY_NODE` upgrade succeeded, upgrade the remaining storage nodes.

        1. Get a comma sperated list of storage nodes to be upgraded.

            ```bash
            STORAGE_NODES="$(ceph orch host ls | grep ncn-s | grep -v "$CANARY_NODE" | awk '{print $1}' | tr '\n' ',' | head -c -1)"
            echo "$STORAGE_NODES"
            ```

        1. Upgrade remaining storage nodes.

            ```bash
            /usr/share/doc/csm/upgrade/scripts/upgrade/ncn-upgrade-worker-storage-nodes.sh ${STORAGE_NODES} --upgrade
            ```

>     For troubleshooting the storage node upgrades, please see the notes in the [CSM storage node upgrade procedure](../Stage_2.md#storage-node-image-upgrade-and-ceph-upgrade).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For troubleshooting the storage node upgrades, see the notes in the [CSM storage node upgrade procedure](../Stage_2.md#storage-node-image-upgrade-and-ceph-upgrade).
```

## Overview

The following steps upgrade NCNs into the node images created during the [Update NCN images](../1.5.2/README.md#update-ncn-images)
step of the patch procedure. The node upgrades will not change the state of the node.

It is important to do this step so that nodes
are using the correct images. If NCNs are not upgraded into these images, then `cloudinit` will fail on the nodes the next
time the nodes are rebuilt. These images were set in BSS during [Update NCN images](../1.5.2/README.md#update-ncn-images)
and if the NCN nodes are not upgraded, then on any node reboot will cause the node to be booted into this new image which is not following the proper
upgrade procedure which could cause problems.

## Steps

1. (`ncn-m001#`) Upgrade storage nodes.

    1. Pick one storage node to test the first storage node upgrade on. This will be referred to as the `CANARY_NODE`.

        ```bash
        CANARY_NODE="ncn-s001"
        ```

    1. Perform the storage node upgrade on the `CANARY_NODE`.

        ```bash
        /usr/share/doc/csm/upgrade/scripts/upgrade/ncn-upgrade-worker-storage-nodes.sh ${CANARY_NODE} --upgrade
        ```

>     1. If the `CANARY_NODE` upgrade succeeded, upgrade the remaining storage nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. After successfully upgrading the `CANARY_NODE`, continue upgrading the remaining storage nodes.
```

        1. Get a comma sperated list of storage nodes to be upgraded.

            ```bash

>             STORAGE_NODES="$(ceph orch host ls | grep ncn-s | grep -v "$CANARY_NODE" | awk '{print $1}' | tr '\n' ',' | head -c -1)"
>             echo "$STORAGE_NODES"

Reviewer 2: Reduced command for fetching nodes.
```suggestion
            STORAGE_NODES="$(ceph orch host ls | awk '/^ncn\-s/{if ($1 != "'"$CANARY_NODE"'") print $1}')"
            STORAGE_NODES="${STORAGE_NODES//$'\n'/,}"
            echo "$STORAGE_NODES"
```

            ```

        1. Upgrade remaining storage nodes.

            ```bash

>             /usr/share/doc/csm/upgrade/scripts/upgrade/ncn-upgrade-worker-storage-nodes.sh ${STORAGE_NODES} --upgrade

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            /usr/share/doc/csm/upgrade/scripts/upgrade/ncn-upgrade-worker-storage-nodes.sh "${STORAGE_NODES}" --upgrade
```

            ```

    For troubleshooting the storage node upgrades, see the notes in the [CSM storage node upgrade procedure](../Stage_2.md#storage-node-image-upgrade-and-ceph-upgrade).

1. (`ncn-m001#`) Export `CSM_ARTI_DIR` environment variable. (`CSM_RELEASE_VERSION` and `CSM_DISTDIR` is expected to already be set).

    ```bash
    CSM_REL_NAME="csm-${CSM_RELEASE_VERSION}"
    export CSM_ARTI_DIR="${CSM_DISTDIR}"
    echo "${CSM_ARTI_DIR}"
    ```

> 1. Upgrade master nodes and worker nodes.

Author: @nrockershousen @rustydb @jnowicki-hpe Can you please look over this step? I have changed it and broken out the upgrade of master nodes, worker nodes, and ncn-m001 into different steps. This was done to add instructions to set the environment variables on ncn-m002 before upgrading ncn-m001. This is related to [CASMTRIAGE-7124](https://jira-pro.it.hpe.com:8443/browse/CASMTRIAGE-7124)

Reviewer 2: Please include CASMTRIAGE-7124 in this commit's message.

Reviewer 2: I think this is fine. Aside from my other inline feedback, just amend the relevant commit message mentioning CASMTRIAGE-7124.

Author: I fixed the commit message, it now reads "CASMTRIAGE-7106 update 1.5.2 patch, set env variables on m002. This addresses CASMTRIAGE-7124"

    Follow steps `3.1`, `3.2`, and `3.3` in the [CSM Stage 3 Upgrade Kubernetes documentation](../Stage_3.md) to upgrade master nodes and worker nodes.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Upgrade master nodes and worker nodes using the steps below, these will walk through the [CSM Stage 3 Upgrade Kubernetes documentation](../Stage_3.md) steps.

```

    1. (`ncn-m001#`) Start with step [Stage 3.1 - Master node image upgrade](../Stage_3.md#stage-31---master-node-image-upgrade).

    1. (`ncn-m001#`) Perform [Stage 3.2 - Master node image upgrade](../Stage_3.md#stage-32---worker-node-image-upgrade).

>     1. (`ncn-m002#`) Upgrade `ncn-m001`.

Reviewer 2: Emphasize that the user should be on `ncn-m002`.
```suggestion
    1. (`ncn-m002#`) From `ncn-m002`, commence the upgrade for `ncn-m001`.
```

        1. Move old `myenv` file and create a new file.

            ```bash
            mv /etc/cray/upgrade/csm/myenv /etc/cray/upgrade/csm/myenv.old
            touch /etc/cray/upgrade/csm/myenv
            ```

        1. Set `CSM_RELEASE_VERSION` and `CSM_DISTDIR` release variables to the same values they were set to on `ncn-m001`.
        See the [`CSM-1.5.2` patch preparation](./README.md#preparation) for deatils on how these variables were set

        1. Write release variables to the new `/etc/cray/upgrade/csm/myenv` so that they can be used with the upgrade of `ncn-m001`.

            ```bash
            CSM_ARTI_DIR="${CSM_DISTDIR}"
            CSM_RELEASE="${CSM_RELEASE_VERSION}"
            CSM_REL_NAME="csm-${CSM_RELEASE_VERSION}"
            echo "export CSM_ARTI_DIR=${CSM_ARTI_DIR}" >> /etc/cray/upgrade/csm/myenv
            echo "export CSM_RELEASE=${CSM_RELEASE}" >> /etc/cray/upgrade/csm/myenv
            echo "export CSM_REL_NAME=${CSM_REL_NAME}" >> /etc/cray/upgrade/csm/myenv

>             ```

Reviewer 2: - Removes the `touch` command, the file can be created during the `echo` or `cat` commands.
- Adds `export` to the initial setting of `CSM_ARTI_DIR`, `CSM_RELEASE`, and `CSM_REL_NAME` since they're exported in the `myenv` file. This might not be necessary if `myenv` is sourced in 3.3, but it's still easier on the eyes this way in my opinion.
- Fixes a typo in "deatils"
- Uses `cat` for a less noisy command snippet.
```suggestion
    1. (`ncn-m002#`) From `ncn-m002`, commence the upgrade for `ncn-m001`.

        1. Backup the previous `myenv` file.

            ```bash
            mv /etc/cray/upgrade/csm/myenv /etc/cray/upgrade/csm/myenv.old
            ```

        1. Set the following release variables to the same values they were set to on `ncn-m001`.
           
            - `CSM_DISTDIR`
            - `CSM_RELEASE_VERSION`

           See the [`CSM-1.5.2` patch preparation](./README.md#preparation) for details on setting these variables.

        1. Write release variables to a new `/etc/cray/upgrade/csm/myenv` for the upgrade of `ncn-m001`.

            1. Set the new variables.

               ```bash
               export CSM_ARTI_DIR="${CSM_DISTDIR}"
               export CSM_RELEASE="${CSM_RELEASE_VERSION}"
               export CSM_REL_NAME="csm-${CSM_RELEASE_VERSION}"
               ```

            1. Create the new `myenv` file.

               ```bash
               cat << EOF > /etc/cray/upgrade/csm/myenv
               export CSM_ARTI_DIR=${CSM_ARTI_DIR}
               export CSM_RELEASE=${CSM_RELEASE}
               export CSM_REL_NAME=${CSM_REL_NAME}
               EOF
               ```
```
